# On Sensible Governance

A short essay outlining political values geared towards doing the most practical good for humans. All current political
parties fail at this. This represents the end goal of a pro-democratic movement in the United States (or anywhere). A
"Common Sense" for now. What we want when we win.

## Introduction

Pragmatism, flexibility, solutions based on our best understanding of reality.

## Article of Faith

All humans are important and have value. All humans, fundamentally, want the same basic things: safety, prosperity, and
freedom, for themselves and the people they love.

## Unity

Division is in direct opposition to safety and is usually used to gain prosperity and freedom for one group over
another. No one on either side, though, has safety. Safety isn't gained by getting rid of the other side but by getting
rid of sides. Prosperity and freedom flow from here.

## Diversity

We can all be really different from each other as long as we agree on the article of faith.

## Religion

There a gazillion of them, many of which claim to be the one true religion. Odds are bad for any one of them being
right. Separation of church and state protects both, and is a good thing.

## Ideology

Like religion, they can't all be right. More importantly, they present glittering abstractions more beautiful or
intriguing than the reality with which we must grapple and serve to obscure important truths by holding particular
ideas to be inviolate. Ideology makes people keep doing things empirically don't work and to stop doing things that
empirically do work. A certain amount of ideology is unavoidable. (See [Article of Faith](#article-of-faith).)

## Freedom of Speech

The freedom to criticize the government and speak truth to power is essential for any functioning democracy. The
ability to flood the public sphere with complete fabrications designed to divide people and convince them to act
against their own best interest is extremely dangerous to the project of democracy and needs to be seriously addressed
as a crime.

## Material Freedom

Safety, property, freedom all have a material basis. People must be fed, housed, clothed, etc... before they can be
free participants in a robust democracy.

## Capitalism

The elephant in the room. We must delicately broach the topic with Americans that there are some problems with
capitalism. The prevailing model has capitalism associated in most people's minds with "free markets". Need to show, in
the simplest terms possible, that capitalism is about power relations. Marx talked about the "means of production", but
I think that's too abstract for this discussion. "Means of survival" is more apt, a better descriptor of the actual
situation, and easier to explain. It's easier to explain the problem for democracy when a small class of people control
all of the resources the large mass of everyone else needs to survive.

Use examples like employers controlling pee breaks to show how labor is fundamentally coerced.

Worth a whole book or essay of its own: [On Capitalism](../capitalism/outline.md)

## Pragmatism

Pragmatic governing, without ideology, means trying things, measuring the result, and refining your approach to get the
best measurable results. Don't do things that don't work. Tweak things to make them work better. Very difficult to do
when people are so invested in their ideologies that they never get to looking at and evaluating real world effects of
policy decisions.

Various historical communist revolutions good examples of ideology getting ahead of practice with disastrous results
for safety, prosperity, and freedom.

An example of a pragmatic solution to (or, at least, mitigation of) the problems of capitalism: new deal tax policies.
Over time approach can be refined to account for technological and other changes that impact working, or from insights
gained in earlier iterations.
